.TH MD-VIEWER 1 "March 2026" "MD Viewer" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
mdv, mdv-admin \- CLI tools for MD Viewer file opening and local state ops
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mdv
[\fIGLOBAL OPTIONS\fR] \fIFILE\fR
.br
.B mdv
comments \fISUBCOMMAND\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.br
.B mdv-admin
\fICOMMAND\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBmdv\fR is the client CLI for MD Viewer. It can open local/remote Markdown files
in a running MD Viewer server, and query local comments/annotations from SQLite.
.PP
\fBmdv-admin\fR is the operations CLI for sync record statistics and cleanup.
.SH GLOBAL OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-p ", " \-\-port " " \fIPORT\fR
Server port (default: 3000)
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-host " " \fIHOST\fR
Server host (default: localhost)
.TP
.B \-\-no\-focus
Add file without switching focus.
.TP
.B \-\-json
Output in JSON format (recommended for agents).
.TP
.BR \-\-limit " " \fIN\fR
Result limit for comment list/get (default: 20).
.TP
.BR \-\-offset " " \fIN\fR
Result offset for pagination (default: 0).
.TP
.BR \-\-seq " " \fIN\fR
Comment serial (recommended for \fBcomments reply\fR).
.TP
.BR \-\-id " " \fIID\fR
Comment raw unique ID (for \fBcomments reply\fR).
.TP
.BR \-\-text " " \fITEXT\fR
Reply content (for \fBcomments reply\fR).
.TP
.BR \-\-author " " \fINAME\fR
Reply author (required for \fBcomments reply\fR), e.g. \fBcodex\fR/\fBclaude\fR.
.TP
.B \-\-help
Show help.
.SH COMMANDS
.SS mdv open
.TP
.B mdv \fIFILE\fR
Add a local/remote Markdown file to viewer. By default, switch to that file.
.RS
.IP
Supported input:
\fB/path/to/file.md\fR, \fB./relative.md\fR, \fBhttps://...\fR
.RE
.SS mdv comments
.TP
.B mdv comments list
List documents that have comments, ordered by latest update time desc.
.RS
.IP
Options: \fB--limit\fR, \fB--offset\fR, \fB--json\fR
.RE
.TP
.B mdv comments get --file \fIFILE\fR
Get comments for one document.
.RS
.IP
Options: \fB--file\fR, \fB--limit\fR, \fB--offset\fR, \fB--json\fR
.RE
.TP
.B mdv comments reply --file \fIFILE\fR [--seq \fIN\fR | --id \fIID\fR] --author \fINAME\fR --text \fITEXT\fR
Reply to one comment thread by serial (\fB2\fR) or raw ID.
.RS
.IP
Options: \fB--file\fR, \fB--seq\fR/\fB--id\fR, \fB--author\fR, \fB--text\fR, \fB--json\fR
.RE
.SS mdv-admin
.TP
.B mdv-admin stats
Show sync record statistics.
.TP
.B mdv-admin cleanup
Clean up expired sync records (older than 6 months).
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Open and focus one file:
.B mdv README.md
.TP
Open one file without focus:
.B mdv --no-focus docs/note.md
.TP
Open with custom port:
.B mdv -p 3001 README.md
.TP
List commented docs:
.B mdv comments list --limit 50
.TP
Get one file comments in JSON:
.B mdv comments get --file README.md --json
.TP
Reply one comment:
.B mdv comments reply --file README.md --seq 2 --author codex --text "ack, will update"
.TP
Show sync stats:
.B mdv-admin stats
.TP
Cleanup expired sync records:
.B mdv-admin cleanup
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.config/md-viewer/config.json
Config file. See
.BR md-viewer.config (5).
.TP
.I ~/.config/md-viewer/annotations.db
Local SQLite comments/annotations storage.
.TP
.I ~/.config/md-viewer/sync-records.json
Sync records storage for mdv-admin.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B PORT
Server listening port (default: 3000).
.TP
.B HOST
Server host (default: localhost).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR md-viewer.config (5)
