.TH MD-VIEWER.CONFIG 5 "February 2026" "MD Viewer" "File Formats"
.SH NAME
md-viewer.config \- MD Viewer configuration file format
.SH SYNOPSIS
.I ~/.config/md-viewer/config.json
.SH DESCRIPTION
The MD Viewer configuration file is a JSON file that allows users to customize
the behavior of both the server and CLI components. The configuration is stored
in the user's config directory.
.SH FILE LOCATION
The configuration file is read from:
.PP
.RS 4
.B ~/.config/md-viewer/config.json
.RE
.PP
If the file does not exist, default values are used.
.SH CONFIGURATION OPTIONS
The following options are currently supported:
.SS Server Options
.TP
.B server.port
The port number for the HTTP server (default: 3000).
.TP
.B server.host
The host address to bind to (default: "localhost").
.SS Client Options
.TP
.B client.defaultFocus
Whether to automatically switch to newly added files (default: true).
.TP
.B client.theme
UI theme: "light", "dark", or "auto" (default: "light").
.SS Editor Options
.TP
.B editor.fontSize
Font size in pixels for the Markdown preview (default: 14).
.TP
.B editor.lineHeight
Line height multiplier (default: 1.6).
.SS File Options
.TP
.B files.autoRefresh
Automatically refresh file content when it changes (default: true).
.TP
.B files.rememberOpenFiles
Restore open files on restart (default: true).
.SH EXAMPLE CONFIGURATION
.nf
{
  "server": {
    "port": 3000,
    "host": "localhost"
  },
  "client": {
    "defaultFocus": true,
    "theme": "light"
  },
  "editor": {
    "fontSize": 14,
    "lineHeight": 1.6
  },
  "files": {
    "autoRefresh": true,
    "rememberOpenFiles": true
  }
}
.fi
.SH NOTES
.TP
.B Configuration Precedence
1. Command-line arguments (highest priority)
2. Environment variables
3. Configuration file values
4. Built-in defaults (lowest priority)
.TP
.B Validation
Invalid configuration values will be silently ignored, falling back to defaults.
Check the server logs for configuration warnings.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.config/md-viewer/config.json
User configuration file
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR md-viewer (1)
.SH BUGS
Report bugs at: https://github.com/yourusername/md-viewer/issues
